2022.6.0 (#22943)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2022-06-01-release-20226.markdown

These are the beta release notes for Home Assistant Core 2022.6 (and is thus a
work in progress).

If you encounter any issues with the beta release, please report them on GitHub:

- Issues with integrations, automations and such (Core related):<br>
  <https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues>
- Issues with the frontend/Lovelace:<br>
  <https://github.com/home-assistant/frontend/issues>
- Issues with the Supervisor:<br>
  <https://github.com/home-assistant/supervisor/issues>
- Issues with the documentation:<br>
  <https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/issues>

Please be sure to include the beta version you are running in the issue
version field (not title), so we can classify your issue correctly.

Issues introduced in the beta are processed with priority.

---
<!-- ABOVE NEEDS TO BE REMOVED BEFORE THE RELEASE -->

👋  Hi there, Home Assistant Core 2022.6!

The June release brings insights! Insights on how you are doing with your
energy usage, and insights into what all the devices in your home are up to!

But that is not all June has to bring. Besides this release and [the release party](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LVDex3IV44M),

> we have two events additional events lined up for you this month!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we have two additional events lined up for you this month!
```

On June 15, we will be hosting a [Matter in Home Assistant workshop](/blog/2022/05/29/matter-in-home-assistant-workshop-announcement/)!

> The workshop will show you what we've been up to and allows you to actually test it out by adding your first Matter device to your own instance!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workshop will show you what we've been up to and allow you to actually test it out by adding your first Matter device to your own instance!
```

I'm excited for this one; I've ordered [the parts listed in the workshop details](/blog/2022/05/29/matter-in-home-assistant-workshop-announcement/)

> so to it myself 🤗.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for myself 🤗.
```

The day after, June 16, the second event: [Let's get loud!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SEH-DxOsywg)

This event is all about a new approach to home audio and music in an open

> solution that values the Open Home. Join this events for the latest news and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
solution that values the Open Home. Join this event for the latest news and
```

OAuth2 can be pretty complex, as services often implement additional
requirements on top of the OAuth2 specifications. So, if "OAuth Redirect URI"
gives you the shivers, you definitely will know what drama we are talking about.
Additionally, for most, you need to register a developer account, create
an application, get the client ID and secret and configure YAML 🥴

This release aims to make this all easier and streamline this experience A LOT.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2022-06/application-credentials.png' alt='Screenshot showing adding OAuth2 application credentials can now be done via the UI'>

[@allenporter] has been busy adding support for managing OAuth2
application credentials directly from the UI! (screenshot above.) This removes
the need to edit YAML (and restart Home Assistant). Additionally, the UI
will now guide you through this all when setting up the integration. Awesome!

Also, we have extended My Home Assistant to be able to support OAuth2
authentication redirects! It's fast, simple, privacy-aware, and nothing
for you to set up. It just works! No more redirect URI frustrations. 🤘

> We have updated the documentation of all integrations using OAuth to reflect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have updated the documentation of all integrations using OAuth2 to reflect
```

  these devices based on the plan you have defined in that calendar!<br>
  <br>
  This way, you can create complex schedules with repeating patterns
  and schedule exceptions, with the ease of using your calendar.
</div>

## Improved scene editor

Scenes are great for restoring states of multiple devices to a previous state,
e.g., to quickly set a lighting mood in a room, using an automation, script,
or a button on your dashboard.

When creating scenes, it creates those scenes based on the state of a whole
device (including all of its entities). However, what if you want to add
a specific entity to a scene and not the entire device?

Well, now you can!

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2022-06/scene-editor-individual-entities.png' alt='Screenshot showing the scene editor adding a single entity to the scene'>

It is a small but welcome improvement that makes it possible to include single
entities into a scene without adding the whole device. Of course, you can also
still add the entire device if you want to.

## Database performance

This release builds on [the database improvements from 2022.4](/blog/2022/04/06/release-20224/#database-performance).

> Disk writes have been reduced to preserve SD card lifetimes and new APIs,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disk writes have been reduced to preserve SD card lifetimes and new APIs have been added,
```

  number of the OS Agent is now also listed. Thanks, [@bdraco] & [@ludeeus].
- The "Preload Camera" setting shown on every camera feed has been moved! It
  is now part of the entity settings, preventing unintentional toggling.
  Thanks [@bramkragten]!
- [@goyney] upgraded the [Material Design Icons] to version v6.7.96, providing
  us with 100 new, fresh, and really useful icons! Thank you!
- The `this` variable in [template] entities is now also available for use in
  their actions! Thanks, [@emontnemery].
- A big shout out to [@yosilevy], who has been improving support for
  RTL languages (Right to Left) in the UI! Thank you!
- [@balloob] added support for the media browser to the [GStreamer] and
  [VLC media player] integrations.
- The [`as_timedelta`](/docs/configuration/templating/#time) template
  filter/function, added by [@eifinger], allows you to convert many time strings
  (including ISO8601) into a timedelta object. Awesome!
- Lots of you asked for it; the "YAML" tab is now the first tab
  shown in the developer tools.
- [@Noltari] has been extending the [QNAP QSW] integration, adding support
  for diagnostics, a reboot button, and binary sensors for anomaly detection.

> - Got a [Ring] doorbell? And want to fool your other in your house someone is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Got a [Ring] doorbell? And want to fool the others in your house someone is
```

The following integrations are now available via the Home Assistant UI:

- [Aladdin Connect], done by [@mkmer]
- [HERE Travel Time], done by [@eifinger]
- [Slack], done by [@tkdrob]

[@eifinger]: https://github.com/eifinger
[@mkmer]: https://github.com/mkmer
[@tkdrob]: https://github.com/tkdrob
[Aladdin Connect]: /integrations/aladdin_connect
[HERE Travel Time]: /integrations/here_travel_time
[Slack]: /integrations/slack

## Need help? Join the community!

Home Assistant has a great community of users who are all more than willing
to help each other out. So, join us!

Our very active [Discord chat server](/join-chat) is an excellent place to be
at, and don't forget to join our amazing [forums](https://community.home-assistant.io/).

Found a bug or issue? Please report it in our [issue tracker](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues),
to get it fixed! Or, check [our help page](/help) for guidance for more
places you can go.

Are you more into email? [Sign-up for our Building the Open Home Newsletter](/newsletter)
to get the latest news about features, things happening in our community and
other news about building an Open Home; straight into your inbox.

## Breaking Changes

> Below is a listing of the breaking change for this release, per subject or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a listing of the breaking changes for this release, per subject or
```

[#72270]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/72270

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Template filter/function defaults" %}

The following template filters and functions will now error instead of returning
the input if the input is invalid and no default value is specified:

- `acos`
- `as_timestamp`
- `asin`
- `atan`
- `atan2`
- `cos`
- `float`
- `int`
- `log`
- `multiply`
- `round`
- `sin`
- `sqrt`
- `strptime`
- `tan`
- `timestamp_custom`
- `timestamp_local`
- `timestamp_utc`

Examples:

{% raw %}

- `{{ "abc" | float }}`: Will fail to render
- `{{ "abc" | float(default=5) }}`: Will render as -5, no warning will be logged
- `{{ float("abc") }}`: Will fail to render
- `{{ float("abc", default=5) }}`: Will render as -5, no warning will be logged

{% endraw %}

([@emontnemery] - [#71687]) ([documentation](/docs/configuration/templating/#numeric-functions-and-filters))

[@emontnemery]: https://github.com/emontnemery
[#71687]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/71687

{% enddetails %}

{% details "OAuth2 (re-)authentications" %}

Home Assistant will now use My Home Assistant to redirect the OAuth2 callback
over.

> If you need to re-authenticate with an exiting OAuth2 application in the future,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to re-authenticate with an existing OAuth2 application in the future,
```

have been removed from the vacuum entity as they are now available as individual
entities.

([@natekspencer] - [#71760]) ([documentation](/integrations/litterrobot))

[@natekspencer]: https://github.com/natekspencer
[#71760]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/71760

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Logbook" %}

If the stop and start event were fired within the exact same minute, we would
previously show it as `restarted`  in the logbook. When events crossed the
minute boundary (i.e., we fired stop at 11:30:59 and start at 11:31:04), it
would show separately as `stopped` and then `start`.

This change eliminates the inconstancy by always showing them as `stopped` and
`started`, which allows us to simplify how we generate logbook rows.

([@bdraco] - [#71600]) ([documentation](/integrations/logbook))

[@bdraco]: https://github.com/bdraco
[#71600]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/71600

---

The entity name in the logbook is now always shown with the current name instead
of the old name if it was renamed. If the entity no longer exists, we now show
the original entity_id instead, which aligns with the warning icon we already

> display on the frontend when a state is missing or removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
display in the frontend when a state is missing or removed.
```

integration has migrated to configuration via the UI. Configuring nVent RAYCHEM SENZ
OAuth application credentials via YAML configuration has been deprecated
and will be removed in a future Home Assistant release.

Your existing OAuth application credentials in the YAML configuration is
automatically imported on upgrade to this release; and thus can be safely
removed from your YAML configuration after upgrading.

([@allenporter] - [#72338]) ([documentation](/integrations/senz))

[@allenporter]: https://github.com/allenporter
[#72338]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/72338

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Recorder" %}

De-duplicate event data into a new `event_data` table

Data is no longer stored in the `event.event_data` column and instead
deduplicated into the `event_data.shared_data` column and joined on
`event.data_id==event_data.data_id`.

This is the same as we did with state attributes in 2022.4, as we can reduce
the size of the events table by ~8-14% on avg.

([@bdraco] - [#71135]) ([documentation](/integrations/recorder))

[@bdraco]: https://github.com/bdraco
[#71135]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/71135

---

> - All the data needed to fetch a `stated_changed` event is now available in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All the data needed to fetch a `state_changed` event is now available in
```

[#71653]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/71653

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Sonos" %}

The `sonos.join` and `sonos.unjoin` services will be removed in 2022.8 in favor
of the standard `media_player.join` and `media_player.unjoin` services.

([@jjlawren] - [#71226]) ([documentation](/integrations/sonos))

[@jjlawren]: https://github.com/jjlawren
[#71226]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/71226

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Spotify" %}

The configuration of the OAuth application credentials for the Spotify
integration has migrated to configuration via the UI. Configuring Spotify
OAuth application credentials via YAML configuration has been deprecated
and will be removed in a future Home Assistant release.

Your existing OAuth application credentials in the YAML configuration is
automatically imported on upgrade to this release; and thus can be safely
removed from your YAML configuration after upgrading.

([@allenporter] - [#71871]) ([documentation](/integrations/spotify))

[@allenporter]: https://github.com/allenporter
[#71871]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/71871

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Squeezebox (Logitech Media Server)" %}

> This PR updates the Squeezebox player synchronization framework to use the
> platform-level services `media_player.join` and `media_player.unjoin`. The
> list of synchronized players is now stored in the `group_members` state
> attribute. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Squeezebox player synchronization framework has been updated to use the
standard `media_player.join` and `media_player.unjoin` services. The
list of synchronized players is now stored in the `group_members` state
attribute. 
```

The  `squeezebox.sync` and `squeezebox.unsync` services are now deprecated,

> which will be removed in two releases in favor of the new platform-level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and will be removed in two releases in favor of the standard
```
